We know that images are represented in the
form of a matrix and pixels.So,
when we say that we have a high resolution image,
it simply means that it has a lot of pixels present  
in the image.

So, in this project we are using Convolution Neural 
Network for image classification.
Basically CNN is a combination of two Networks,
First network is responsible for feature extraction 
and the other for Finding the relationships between 
the features extracted or for classification

In the first Network,
we have some important operations that we need
to understand before moving forward.


NEXT

1. Convolution:
Convolution operations are performed on the
images to extract features from the images.

There is no limit for Number of conv kernels to be present.
We can have multiple Convolution filters.
Conventionally, the first Convolutional Layer is
responsible for capturing the low-Level features such as
edges, color, shpaes etc. With the use of
added layers, the architecture adapts to the high-level
features as well, giving us a network that has a good
understanding of images in the data set.

Its also helps to reduce the size of the image.

Exaplain the image in the ppt

NEXT

2. Pooling
The second important operation is Pooling.
Similar to the convolution operation, the operation
of pooling is to reduce the size of the
images/matrix.

Pooling operation is used to
extract the dominant features from the image.

Although filters of different sizes can be used
for pooling, generally 2x2 size filter is used. Pooling
operations can be of different types such as average
pooling, max pooling and, minimum pooling can be used
in this layer. In this project, max pooling and average
pooling has been applied.

Pooling Operation is generally performed after 
Convolution operation, but there is no thumb rule.

Exaplain the image in the ppt

NEXT

Once we have completed the Feature extraction
operation we flatten our matrix or in simple terms 
convert the matrix into a 1-D Array, which is given
as input to the Fully Connected Neural Netwrks, which is responsible
for classification of the images.

And, in the last layer, which is the output layer we are 
using SofMax Activation Function, which calculates the 
probability of each class and returns the class with 
highest probability.

This is How CNN performs classification of the images.

Now, next Ashutosh wil brief you about the phases of our project.





